What is product management?
Product management is the art and science of uncovering
user problems through leveraging data and user research.
Setting objectives and metrics to align cross-functional teams towards common goals.
Leading engineers and designers to determine what solutions need to be built.
Finally, facilitating execution and the launch of your products to market.
The first product manager role was officialized at Proctor and Gamble in the 1930s.
The role was described as Brand Man,
responsible for the brand as a product.
They were responsible for advertising, marketing,
and brand product reception via field testing and client interaction.
The roles sat closer to product relations in
marketing as a way to understand customers needs and products.
In the light of the tech boom,
however, there was a shift in the product manager's role,
where experimentation and iterative design involves working a little closer with
development and design teams to really represent
and hone in on the customer's needs, wants, and desires.
But then how do data product management come about?
Due to Moore's Law,
which states that overall processing power for computers will double every two years.
Humans are producing more data than we know what to do with.
This has initiated the emergence of a new type of product manager who can represent
the customer while understanding both the risks and
possibilities that big data processing can bring.
Data product management is still a very ambiguous term in the industry.
Different companies have different requirements and intentions for data product managers.
There are currently three types of data product managers.
First, building data products that leverage automated data collection,
processing, storage, machine learning, and retrieval.
Some examples include Netflix's content recommendation engine,
Spotify's year end review,
and the personal finance app, Mint's budgeting dashboard.
Next, build data platforms that enable data scientists and analysts to access, store,
analyze, enrich, transform, aggregate,
encrypt, visualize, and deliver data.
Finally, data product managers that leverage data science to make
stronger decisions as a product manager from defining the minimum viable product,
to iterative design and experimentation,
to building out your product roadmap.
For this course, we'll be focusing on this.